# robotic_planning_algorithm_final_project

## Introduction
- In this research-oriented project, we aim to adapt TrajOpt to optimize the paths generated by the RRT-Connect planner in Vamp, observing path length and planning time. 
- We first conducted experiments to test trajectories planning with Trajopt under environments with and without obstacles, using random initialization joint_angles, and then
  replaced the initialization paths with planning paths generated by RRT-Connect. 

- See [Project5_vc68_mk232_report.pdf](./Project5_vc68_mk232_report.pdf) for detailed analysis and results.
- See [Project5_vc68_mk232_slides.pptx](./Project5_vc68_mk232_slides.pptx) for presentation slides.


## Environment Setup
1. Docker is required to run the code. Please follow the instructions in the vamp github to set up the docker environment: https://github.com/KavrakiLab/vamp

2. Pip install the required packages:
```
pip install tesseract-robotics tesseract-robotics-viewers
```
3. Copy the workspace folder to the docker environment.

## How to run
1. Run [./workspace/scripts/part1_with_visualization.py](./workspace/scripts/part1_with_visualization.py) to see the visualization of TrajOpt optimizing given paths in environments with and without obstacles.
2. Run [./workspace/scripts/part1_evaluation.py](./workspace/scripts/part1_evaluation.py) to evaluate the performance of TrajOpt optimizing random initialization paths in environments with and without obstacles.
3. Run [./workspace/scripts/part2_complete.py](./workspace/scripts/part2_complete.py) to evaluate the performance of TrajOpt optimizing RRT-Connect planned paths generated by VAMP in environments with obstacles.

## References
- Vamp:
@inproceedings{vamp_2024,
  title = {Motions in Microseconds via Vectorized Sampling-Based Planning},
  author = {Thomason, Wil and Kingston, Zachary and Kavraki, Lydia E.},
  booktitle = {IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation},
  date = {2024},
  url = {http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.14545},
}

- TrajOpt: https://github.com/tesseract-robotics/trajopt